# MSBA-Capstone-Project

The included notebooks in this repository were my efforts in competing in the Univeristy of Utah MSBA Capstone Competition in conjunction with Marverik. The competition was complete with two other students. The notebooks are representative of my individual contributions to the team's efforts. This was an exciting project, and I learned a great deal about working with time series data.

This project asked us to build and train a predictive machine-learning model to estimate four target metrics. These metrics include Daily Food Sales, Daily Inside Sales, Daily Gallons of Unlead Fuel Sold, and Daily Gallons of Diesel Fuel Sold. Marverik, a convenience store and gas station company, provided the data for this competition. They currently have 300+ stores across the Western United States, growing rapidly. On average, they are opening 30 new locations every year. This rapid growth has caused them to seek the University of Utah’s MSBA program students to develop a machine-learning model that can accurately predict a year's worth of the four daily target metrics. The model should be able to update predictions as new data becomes available.

The ‘MSBA-Capstone-EDA.ipynb’ notebook will walk through the process of creating the final dataset to train and test the final model. The ‘MSBA-Capstone-Models-Project.ipynb’ notebook builds on the EDA to develop and test 6 different models for this competition.

The final result of the work completed in these two notebooks was determining which model would be recommended for Maverik. As a team, we each developed models and compared our results to determine the best-performing model. Another teammate developed the model we submitted for the competition, as my best-performing model had an error in the code that made it overfit on the testing data.

The two notebooks depict my efforts in exploring the datasets provided by Maverik. The EDA walks you through my initial process of cleaning the data and creating additional features for the final model. My work for the EDA focussed on exploring the target variable, addressing the holiday variables, and adding additional macroeconomic variables. The modeling notebook is my addition to the final EDA and contributions to model development. My work was to train and test multiple models on our final dataset. Modeling approaches I tested included simple average, SARIMA, ARIMA, Exponential Smoothing, XGBoost, and a Neural Network utilizing LSTM.

This competition aimed to help Maverik accurately predict four target metrics for the first year of a store’s opening. These predictions would provide Maverik with a data-driven approach to tracking the return on investment for each location and quickly identifying any underperforming locations. The model we developed as a team was designed to increase the predictive power of Marverik’s current predictive model. By implementing a model with increased accuracy, Maverik would better understand what returns they should expect from each new location as they continue to expand their business.

This project had a variety of challenges along the way. One of the challenges I faced for my portion of the competition was understanding how to work with time series data. This type of data was new to most MSBA program students and challenged us to learn new approaches to analyze this type of data. I had to research new modeling approaches and understand how to correctly clean the data in order to not loose any valuable information. Additionally, I ran into an error in the development of the Neural Network model. This model outperformed all of the other models by a significant amount which created a cause for concern about overfitting. With limited time before the end of the competition, I was able to identify the error in my code. However, there was not enough time to fix the model before my group needed to submit our results. If I had had more time, I would have liked to update the Neural Network model to see if it would have been able to complete with the final model we submitted.

The biggest takeaway from this project was learning how to solve a new business problem with limited knowledge of time series analysis. Working with data that had a time component was fun. It's what I would imagine a lot of data scientists face when working for a company. The business may ask you to develop a solution to a problem you have little to no previous knowledge of how to solve but you can still be successful through determination and hard work. I was excited to try new modeling approaches and create a new feature to see how it impacts the overall results. It was fun learning new approaches not covered in previous classes to help drive the success of this project. Now that this project is complete, I’m excited about what other projects I will have the chance to work on.


